Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You'll win in eight moves.
You're really starting to get a feel for the game.
32 pieces, 64 squares...
It's not as if it's difficult.
The total number of possible outcomes is limited.
Ten to the 123rd power.
That's what I mean.
Chess is so predictable,
I'm surprised anyone bothers to play it.
Their average life span's
only about a hundred years.
There's not enough time to play all the possible games.
What a waste. Careful.
No emotional involvement.
I know the rules:
observation without interference.
Hmm.
You'll win in five moves.
I'm the ship's champion.
I win all the tournaments.
How do you think they'll react
to what's on this planet?
Well, that's what we're here to find out,
but in my experience, all physical species are alike.
I don't expect humans will be any different.
Do you think our hosts will die tonight?
It's possible.
For some of the species that have come here,
I've seen the whole crew die. For others, only a few.
But somebody always dies.
Always.
Your move.
[sighs]
It's been a long road
Getting from there to here
It's been a long time
But my time is finally near
And I will see my dream
come alive at last
I will touch the sky
And they're not gonna
hold me down no more
No, they're not
gonna change my mind
'Cause I've got faith
of the heart
I'm going where my heart
will take me
I've got faith to believe
I can do anything
I've got strength
of the soul
No one's gonna bend
or break me
I can reach any star
I've got faith
I've got, I've got
Faith of the heart.
I can't wait to get back.
Two days ago, you couldn't wait to get off the ship.
Sifting through a Klingon garbage dump--
not my idea of "exploring
strange new worlds."
Getting tired of exploration, Ensign?
All the planets starting to look alike?
Not a chance, sir.
I didn't think so. [coughing]
Oh, I feel like I'm still breathing dirt.
Shuttlepod One to Enterprise.
Welcome back.
How did your "treasure hunt" turn out?
Oh, nothing worth bringing home.
The Klingons must've been here years ago.
All they left was an old power cell
and a bunch of empty ration packs.
And a latrine.
Yeah.
A long hot shower's looking
pretty good.
Shuttlepod One out.
[coughing]
Commander?
What-what's wrong?!
Take over...
Got to dock...
[hacking coughs]
Shuttlepod One to Enterprise.
I have a medical emergency. [Tucker hacking]
Commander Tucker's collapsed.
Can you bring the shuttlepod in?
Yes, sir...
at least in simulations.
Slow and steady, Ensign.
I'll see you in Decon.
Understood.
Call Phlox.
Trip, how you feeling?
[sighs]
Like I've been gut-punched by a Tellarite...
Doctor, should we start with the bio-gel?
Not until we know what we're dealing with.
The three other landing parties returned
from the surface with no ill effects.
We need to check out the shuttlepod, too,
see if any of its environmental systems were at fault.
Well, I can do that, Captain. I should've thought
of that myself. Stay where you are, Trip.
Phlox needs blood samples.
Here's the medkits.
[coughing]
Hoshi... what is it?
Before Commander Tucker passed out,
he started coughing. Are you feeling any other symptoms?
[retching]
I'm going to guess that's a yes.
I'll prepare anti-nausea medication.
You get me those blood samples,
hmm, as soon as you can.
Anything?
Well, whatever's afflicting them,
it's not showing up on the standard scans.
That doesn't sound good.
It's not.
I studied your report on
how the Klingons reacted to the infection.
Their response was typical
for a species at their level of development.
The Klingon commander didn't let
his landing party back on his ship.
Your point?
Captain Archer did.
Captain Archer's done nothing
different from the Klingons.
The launch bay and Decon Chamber
are completely isolated from the rest of the ship.
So it doesn't matter
if an infected landing party comes aboard.
Precisely. Humans don't want to interact
with dying crew mates any more than Klingons did.
If it was left to me,
I'd stop our observations immediately.
We have nothing more to learn from humans.
Oh, I don't know...
They're showing concern for each other.
The Cardassians did that when they were here, didn't they?
Yeah, but in the end, they killed their infected crew
just as the Klingons did.
The only difference is the time it took to reach that decision.
Maybe the humans will surprise us.
I've been observing aliens for 800 years.
I have yet to be surprised.
Still, we should follow protocol.
Start questioning the infected crew,
and I'll check in with the Doctor.
Okay.
This is for nausea,
muscle pain...
and a cough suppressant.
I'm not coughing anymore. Neither are you.
Maybe we're getting better. Well, Doctor's orders...
Commander,
Hoshi... just wanted to say hi.
Uh, we're a little busy right now, Travis.
Can you tell me what's in the hypospray?
Something for our symptoms.
Yeah. Phlox doesn't know
what's wrong with us yet.
Have either of you faced
serious illness before?
Aren't you supposed to be on duty?
I was curious to know how you'd compare this experience
with other illnesses you might've contracted.
Travis...
we really need to get some sleep. I only have
a few more questions. Thanks for stopping by. I...
[sighs]
Ah, Lieutenant Reed.
Something I can do for you?
Headache.
Of course, uh, just a moment.
Are these are the blood tests
for Commander Tucker and Ensign Sato? That's correct.
Huh.
I'm not detecting any vascular involvement...
Hmm?
Your headache.
Not a bad one, I take it?
Uh, no, not yet,
although it feels like it could get worse.
Preventive measure.
A lot to do today.
A mild analgesic it is...
Oh.
Doctor, I'm curious to know how you think
these tests will help you develop an effective treatment.
So am I.
I mean, are you approaching this
strictly on a symptomatic level, or do you believe
there's any similarity to other conditions
you've seen in the past? [laughs] Ah.
Lieutenant, I believe
I can put your mind at ease.
If your colleagues have returned with a contagious
illness, there is no way it can spread to the rest of the ship.
We are all quite safe.
I'm not worried about that.
No, I'm interested in the methodology...
Out, out, out! I have a lot to do as well, hmm?
You ever see The Andromeda Strain?
Strain of what?
No, it's a movie,
mid-20th century.
Let me guess.
Dr. Andromeda builds a monster,
and it kills him in the end.
It's about an extraterrestrial disease.
All your movies are the same.
I can't keep the stories straight.
This reminds me of my dorm room
at Starfleet Training.
Got into a lot of trouble
at old STC.
I got kicked out.
Well, you can't stop there.
In my second month, I...
I had a difference of opinion
with the Company Commander.
I broke his arm.
Can I ask why?
Poker.
You broke his arm playing cards?
Well, he tried to shut down a game I was running for
some of the recruits, uh, and a couple of the training staff.
Hold on...
You ran a floating poker game at STC?
The way the regulations are worded,
gambling was an honor violation
only if it took place during duty hours,
so I ran the game on weekends.
One night, my CC showed up,
tried to sweep all the chips off the table, and I...
Well, I have a black belt in Aikido.
I think he was just upset that
I hadn't invited him to play. What happened?
I got a bad conduct discharge.
How the hell did you end up on Enterprise?
Starfleet needed language specialists
more than they needed to make an example out of me.
They let me back in on probation, and...
[sighs]
...here I am.
Hmm.
The closest classification
it matches is a virus.
Highly contagious...
silicon-based.
This is an M-Class planet...
All life forms down there should be carbon-based.
I can only surmise the virus was brought here,
perhaps by a meteorite, which could explain
why only one of our landing parties encountered it.
Is there a treatment? There's no record
of anything like it in the Denobulan database.
Then it's up to you.
I'll do all I can, Captain,
but at the rate the pathogen is reproducing...
Commander Tucker and Ensign Sato have
less than five hours to live.
The Doctor identified the pathogen.
Ah. That happens
37% of the time.
But no one's made the decision
to abandon the infected crew members.
Then this'll likely be one of the times
when everyone dies.
Mmm.
Travis, if that's you again...
It's me.
Next time I ask
to go on a landing party,
talk me out of it, okay?
You're usually too stubborn
to be talked out of anything.
But I'll do my best.
How's Hoshi?
Sleeping.
Whatever Phlox gave us,
at least it's helping with the pain.
Phlox identified what's causing all the trouble.
A silicon-based virus.
I don't suppose he's on his way
over here with the cure. He's working on it.
So is T'Pol.
So, there is no cure.
Not yet.
I'm getting the idea you're up against a deadline.
If you mean how much time do you have,
it's too early for that kind of talk.
Your own immune system could knock this thing out.
I remember Exobiology 101, Captain.
Humans are carbon-based.
Our immune system can't fight silicon.
Don't you give up on me.
There are still a bunch of planets out there
we haven't seen.
Get some rest.
We're looking for signs of elevated intelligence
in the species we observe.
Rational intelligence, yes--
which Archer has not demonstrated.
The longer the infected crew remain on board,
the greater the risk that quarantine will fail.
I'm sure Captain Archer knows exactly
what the risk is.
Maybe it's not as important to him as
standing by his crew.
It's just as probable that he hasn't realized
how hopeless the situation is.
There's a way to be sure.
We chose the Helmsman and the Armory Officer
for good reason.
They're both stationed on the Bridge,
yet neither plays a critical role in a medical emergency.
Which is why we should inhabit the Doctor and
the Science Officer.
Archer relies on their findings to make his decisions.
We could witness that as it happens.
The more people we inhabit, the greater the chance
that we will inadvertently interfere.
The more people we inhabit,
the more we'll be able to observe.
How many languages
can you speak?
That's not how it works.
There are a lot of common patterns.
I'm just good at hearing them, that's all.
Good? You're a genius.
The way you can pick up an alien language
you've never heard before
and start spouting it back to them...
I got to tell you,
I've always been jealous you can do that.
I wish I could fix warp engines...
with duct tape and a pocket knife.
It's...
a bit more complicated than that...
sometimes.
Seriously, engineering,
building things--
have you always been good at that?
Mmm... when I was a kid,
not so good at building.
But I was a terror when it came
to taking things apart.
My folks used to put all our kitchen appliances
on the highest shelves. One Thanksgiving--
I have no idea
what I was thinking, but, um...
I removed every screw from this
big dining room table we had.
It was so old, the wood
sort of stuck together,
so it stayed standing...
until my dad put the turkey down.
[laughing weakly] Oh!
I spent the next month in my room.
How old were you?
Oh, hmm, 24, 25.
How long have they been there?
We didn't see you there.
We didn't want to interrupt you.
How's the research coming?
We're waiting on new test results.
We thought we'd see
how you two were progressing.
You're the ones
with the medical scanners.
We were more interested in discussing
your state of mind. Oh...
Look, if you really want
to know how we feel,
we'd be a lot better knowing you two
were back in Sick Bay working on the cure for this.
Of course.
We're going there now.
Commander. Ensign.
They both came to see us.
Maybe that means they're almost finished. [sighing]
Yeah, unless there's nothing more they can do.
They're very brave,
the way they're facing death.
Their courage isn't at question.
Their intelligence is.
You want the humans to fail.
This isn't a competition.
Either a species' intelligence is developed enough
for First Contact, or it isn't.
Perhaps we should consider other qualities
in making our decision.
This is the measure we have used
for 10,000 years.
It's not our responsibility to change it.
Then whose responsibility is it?
There. If Phlox is right about the virus coming
here on a meteorite, that crater might be the source of it.
Which means the Klingons at this campsite
must have been infected, too.
Set up a priority channel to Starfleet Command.
We need to find out which Klingon ship explored this world,
and whether or not they developed a cure.
Right away, sir.
Those are the new test results
my host is waiting for.
We should leave these creatures
to their work, undisturbed.
The Helmsman and the Armory Officer
are back on the Bridge.
The altered immune receptors
weren't effective.
This could indicate the virus
is sensitive to ionizing radiation.
At levels that would be fatal to humans, but it's a start.
I'll prepare new samples for testing.
[sighing]
Shiranai... Oboenai...
Hoshi...
[speaking German]
[speaking French]
Hoshi, wake up.
I was back in Brazil.
[breathing heavily]
The shuttle was coming to take me to Enterprise.
That's where we are.
Captain Archer needed me early.
I didn't get the chance
to say good-bye to my students.
You'll see them again.
I've heard from Starfleet. They're working
through diplomatic channels to contact the Klingons.
But it might not be necessary.
This spectrograph identifies a Klingon alloy.
That's the signature of standard hull plating.
I found it...
here.
You've detected a debris cloud in orbit.
It's what's left of a Klingon shuttlecraft--
their response to an infected landing party.
The Commander killed his own shuttle crew.
They didn't even plead for mercy.
I mean, they wouldn't, would they?
Being Klingon.
Captain, does knowing what the Klingons did
help us at all?
At least we know we don't have to bother
asking them if they have a cure.
But if they had developed one,
you'd ask them for it, right?
On bended knee.
Yo se que estoy atrasada.
Enterprise no se va hasta ma~ana.
Solo necesito cinco minutos.
Hoshi...
we're in quarantine for a reason.
[speaking Klingon]
I have no idea
what you're saying,
but you can't break the lock-out code.
Math is just another language.
[alarm blares]
Quarantine breach on D-Deck.
The Decon Chamber has been unsealed.
[alarm continues]
[breathing heavily]
[alarm blaring]
Someone's overriding the safety interlocks.
Shut down all power to D-Deck!
I want those doors sealed!
[beeping]
Hoshi...
you have to stop.
That's an airlock.
You open those doors, we die.
Haye nuzhno skazat dosvidaniya.
Hoshi, come on.
I need to tell them...!
[grunting]
...while there's still time.
The Captain won't let us down.
[alarm blaring]
[alarm stops]
Trip to, um...
whoever's out there.
We're back.
Commander, I want you to set your hypospray
for three units of sonambutril.
That could drop a horse.
We can't risk Hoshi wandering off again.
Especially since it seems she can override
every security safeguard on Enterprise.
Yeah, she's...
full of surprises today.
Sweet dreams, Houdini.
Anything else?
It's your turn, Trip. Come on, Captain.
Commander, the virus is incompatible with carbon-based life.
It's attacking your bodies in ways I can't predict.
You think I'm going to wander off, too?
Start opening the wrong doors?
Not if you're sedated. Sorry, Trip.
Commander...
I'm just wondering if either one of us
will ever wake up again.
You should lie down right away.
I won't argue with that.
How close are you to stopping this?
T'Pol and I have isolated a specific frequency of radiation
that disrupts the silicon matrix of the virus.
That sounds promising.
Unfortunately, the dosage required would be lethal.
There's got to be some kind of a trade-off--
a way to produce enough radiation
to slow down the virus without killing the patient.
That's what I'm working on.
Work faster.
We can stop what this virus is doing to them.
That's not why we're here.
We came to observe their response to the unexpected,
not to watch them suffer.
This is not the place
to be having this discussion.
I know where we can talk undisturbed.
[groaning softly] The sensations
in this host are different from the others.
I'm experiencing...
physical pain.
So am I.
Why should any species
have to endure this weakness?
Because the desire
to overcome it will spur them
to move beyond the limitations of the physical world.
Maybe that isn't true for all species.
It was true for us.
You can't be awake.
Not with that much sonambutril.
Our ancestors were physical beings.
What worked for us might not work for everyone.
Humans have different qualities.
Nothing I haven't seen before.
What do you have against this species?
What disturbs me most out the humans
is their capacity for violence.
Extraordinary. Klingons embrace violence.
The humans try to avoid it.
Humans say they avoid it, but their words don't ma...
We're being observed.
Ah, Captain, T'Pol--
I was just coming to see you. These are brain wave
readings of Commander Tucker and Ensign Sato.
What is the significance?
The patterns aren't human.
Did you know they had this capability?
He must've used Denobulan technology.
I see.
Are you responsible for what happened to my patients?
We had nothing to do with it.
We come here only to study
how physical species react to the unknown.
You can help by telling us
how you detected our presence.
That happens in less than
two percent of our missions.
Commander Tucker and Ensign Sato were sedated.
They shouldn't have been able to stand and talk.
It's been so long since we had physical form,
we weren't able to distinguish sleep from sedation.
We'll remember next time.
Is there anything you can do to help my patients?
We're here to observe. We can't interfere.
You're interfering with me!
Our subjects are human.
You're Denobulan.
You were inhabited a few hours ago.
An intriguing experience. I have no recollection of that.
Memories are simple to adjust.
You're going to "adjust" mine again, hmm?
So I won't remember a word of this encounter.
Or what you observed in the Decon Chamber.
If you have that ability, you must be able
to help my patients. We could.
But we won't.
Thank you for your help, Doctor.
No wonder you erase memories.
Your behavior is appalling.
According to what I read on the Doctor's medical PADD,
he's learned how to stop the infection.
I've seen seven other species develop the radiation cure.
But never in time.
Did we make First Contact with any of them?
Of course not.
Expending resources to attempt an impossible task
is not a sign of intelligence.
The Captain and Science Officer
have decisions to make.
We need to return to our original hosts.
For the radiation to destroy the virus
without killing the patient, it must be precisely focused.
The emitters in the Decon Chamber aren't suitable,
but the bio-scanner in Sick Bay is.
To move them from Decon to Sick Bay,
we'll need to expand
the quarantined area.
That won't be a problem.
We're going to make this work.
Ensign Sato's condition is deteriorating.
We need to hurry.
Engaging quarantine.
Reed to Bridge.
I confirm a positive seal.
Environmental systems are isolated.
Entering the quarantine zone.
She's going into oligemic shock.
Captain, she's dying.
[grunting]
Get her on the bio-scan bed.
She's stopped breathing.
Someone always dies.
[sighs]
Hoshi!
[flatline beeps on monitor]
Phlox!
[grunts]
What are you doing?! This equipment's not
designed for EV gloves! [panting]
I'll be your hands.
No, Captain, no!
Right now, Enterprise needs a doctor
more than it needs a captain!
[panting]
[unsnapping]
Attach the leads 20 centimeters apart.
[panting]
I don't understand.
In 800 years,
no one's ever done that before?
No.
Not once they know it's hopeless. You need to
inject 40 units of trinephedrine into her heart, hmm?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That...
That can't go deep enough.
[both panting]
Old-fashioned, but effective.
Angle it slightly more to the right.
Now in one quick motion,
insert it to three centimeters.
Press the activator.
Clear.
[electronic hum]
Come on, Hoshi.
300 millijoules.
[panting]
Captain.
Again!
[panting]
340.
She's gone.
[panting]
Captain, help me with Commander Tucker.
How many have to die before you'll admit
humans are different?
We need to stop this.
I will not depart from protocol.
The incident isn't over.
When the first death occurs on the ship,
there's a 68% chance the rest of the crew will become infected.
What more will that teach us about them?
All this would have happened whether we were here or not.
We are not responsible.
Maybe we should be.
We need to move him into the scanner.
[panting continues]
It didn't work.
I'm sorry, Captain.
Not your fault, Doctor.
There's nothing more I can do for Commander Tucker,
but you've still got a few hours.
There... There has to be something else
I-I... I can try.
You should continue your work
on the Bridge.
Less chance of something going wrong with your suit.
I won't give up.
You know where to find me.
Archer to T'Pol.
T'Pol here, Captain.
I take it you've been watching.
I have.
Then you know you're in command?
Yes, Captain.
I would like to think
you'll stay in command.
Don't let Admiral Gardner
sneak in someone over your head.
I'll do my best.
I know you will.
I need to look after Trip now.
We'll talk again, before...
We'll talk again.
Captain...
if Commander Tucker
becomes conscious...
I'll let you know right away.
Archer out.
[breathing stops, flatline beeps on monitor]
I have such respect for you, Captain Archer.
Trip?
Not exactly.
I'm an Organian--
a nonphysical life-form.
Trip is my host.
What did you do to him?
Nothing.
We never interfere
in the natural development of other species.
We only observe.
Did you know about the silicon virus?
That's why we come here.
To see how different species
react when they encounter it.
You knew about the virus that killed two members of my crew,
and you didn't warn us? I wanted to.
But it's not up to me.
You're breaking every rule we have.
Because they don't apply to this species.
That is not our decision to make.
If we don't challenge the rules...
I don't care about your rules.
Tell me what happens to Trip and Hoshi
when you're finished with their bodies.
We have to leave them as they are.
Dead?
I understand why you won't get involved
with a species' natural development.
I've faced that decision myself.
It isn't an easy one to make.
Then we agree.
No, we don't.
Our encounter with the virus was an accident--
one that you could have prevented.
Then how would we ever learn about you?
Ask us.
Talk to us!
Just like you're doing now.
Talking is a limited form of communication for us.
We're much more advanced than humans.
Not from where I'm standing.
Maybe you've evolved into beings
with abilities I can't comprehend,
but you've paid a hell of a price.
You've lost compassion and empathy--
things that give life meaning.
If that's what it takes to be advanced...
I don't want any part of it.
We're leaving now, Captain.
You won't remember a thing about our presence.
[coughs]
And in three hours, you'll die, as well.
No.
We have the power to save them all.
Are you defying me? I'm defying the entire protocol.
What Archer has done today--
his act of compassion...
you've never witnessed that before.
In time, we'll study other humans.
There's another way.
Experience compassion for yourself.
You want to know
what it means to be human,
you need to do more than observe.
Archer to the Bridge.
T'Pol. Go ahead.
You wanted to know when Trip was awake.
Yes.
Well, you'd better get down here
because he's talking up a storm, and so is Hoshi.
Captain, Hoshi's... You, too, Phlox.
Maybe one of you can tell me what the hell just happened.
You're all completely free of the virus.
It has to have been a delayed reaction
to Commander Tucker's radiation treatment,
but how it spilled over to you and Hoshi...
I have no explanation.
Obviously, the pathogen's behavior
is more unpredictable than we assumed.
I'm sure someone at Starfleet Medical
will figure it out, but for now,
we're going to leave a warning beacon in orbit here
and make sure what happened to us...
never happens to anyone again.
You realize the consequences of what we've done.
We will never be able to observe
another species encounter this virus.
Good.
I'm looking forward to making my first report.
After 10,000 years, the rules need to change.
These humans have not been a good influence on you.
I would not encourage further encounters.
I don't think we can avoid them.
I'm going to recommend that we start preparations
for an Official First Contact mission.
Indeed.
At the rate they're progressing,
that'd barely give us 5,000 years to prepare.
Then we'd better get started.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org